.TH ALSA_IO "1" "December 2008" "0.116.0"
.SH NAME
\fBalsa_in\fR, \fBalsa_out\fR \- Jack Clients, that bind to an unsynchronised Soundcard.
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBalsa_in\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.br
\fBalsa_out\fR [\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
A Jack Client, that opens a specified soundcard, and plays the audio
data from its input Port to the Soundcard. This Soundcard does not
need to be synchronized with the jackd Clocksource.

alsa_in/alsa_out tries to resample the output stream, to reduce clicks.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-j \fI jack_client_name\fR
.br
Set Client Name.
.TP
\fB\-d \fI alsa_device\fR  
.br
Use this Soundcard.
.TP
\fB\-c \fI channels\fR  
.br
Set Number of channels.
.TP
\fB\-r \fI sample_rate\fR  
.br
Set sample_rate. The program resamples as necessary.
So you can connect a 44k1 jackd to a soundcard only supporting
48k.
.TP
\fB\-m \fI max_diff\fR  
.br
The value when a soft xrun occurs. Basically the window, in which
the dma pointer may jitter. If you see "delay=" in the output of alsa_out
this is too small.
.br
Make sure target_delay is bigger than this.
.TP
\fB\-t \fI target_delay\fR  
.br
The delay alsa_io should try to approach. Tune this to get lower latency.
Must be bigger than max_diff for alsa_out, and should be bigger than max_diff+jackd_period
for alsa_in. 
.TP
\fB\-f \fI catch_factor\fR  
.br
This value sets how fast the samplerate will change.
default is 1000. Try 10000 when you have good relation between
your clocksources. This will make resampling inaudible for example.
.TP
\fB\-p \fI period_size\fR  
.br
Set the period size. It is not related to the jackd period_size.
Sometimes it affects the quality of the delay measurements.
Thats why its configurable.
.TP
\fB\-n \fI num_period\fR  
.br
Set number of periods. See note for period_size.

.SH AUTHOR
Torben Hohn
.PP
This manpage was written by Torben Hohn <torbenh@gmx.de> 

